## printf()
It returns total number of Characters Printed, Or negative value if an output error or an encoding error 
- `%n` is a special format specifier which instead of printing something causes `printf()` to load the variable pointed by the corresponding argument with a value equal to the number of characters that have been printed by `printf()` before the occurrence of %n.

### sprintf
String print function instead of printing on console store it on char buffer which are specified in sprintf

### fprintf
fprintf is used to print the string content in file but not on stdout console.

### snprintf
Used to store the specified string till a specified length in the specified format.
```
int snprintf(char *str, size_t size, const char *format, …);

int j = snprintf(buffer, 6, "%s\n", s);
```

## scanf() 
It returns total number of Inputs Scanned successfully, or EOF if input failure occurs before the first receiving argument was assigned.

- The `%*s` in `scanf` is used to ignore some input as required. In this case, it ignores the input until the next space or newline. Similarly, if you write `%*d` it will ignore integers until the next space or newline. 

### scanset ( `%[]` )
- scanf family functions support scanset specifiers which are represented by %[].
- scanf will process only those characters which are part of scanset. (scansets are case-sensitive)
- example: `scanf(%[A-Z,_,a,b,c]s,str);`

## Points to remember
- In C, return type of `getchar()`, `fgetc()` and `getc()` is int 
- gets() function reads a line from stdin into the buffer pointed to by s until either a terminating newline or EOF found

## Difference between getc() and getchar()
All of these functions read a character from input and return an integer value. The integer is returned to accommodate a special value used to indicate failure. The value EOF is generally used for this purpose.

### getc()
It reads a single character from a given input stream and returns the corresponding integer value (typically ASCII value of read character) on success and EOF on failure.

```
int getc(FILE *stream); 
```

### getchar()
The difference between `getc()` and `getchar()` is `getc()` can read from any input stream, but `getchar()` reads from standard input. So `getchar()` is equivalent to `getc(stdin)`.

```
int getchar(void);
```

### getchar_unlocked() 
`getchar_unlocked()` is similar to getchar() with the exception that it is not thread-safe. This function can be securely used in a multi-threaded program if and only if they are invoked when the invoking thread possesses the (FILE*) object, as is the situation after calling flockfile() or ftrylockfile().
```
int getchar_unlocked(void);
```
- Since it is not thread-safe, all overheads of mutual exclusion are avoided and it is faster than getchar().
- It is a known fact that scanf() is faster than cin and getchar() is faster than scanf() in general. getchar_unlocked() is faster than getchar(), hence fastest of all.
- Similarly, there are getc_unlocked() putc_unlocked(), and putchar_unlocked() which are non-thread-safe versions of getc(), putc() and putchar() respectively.


## Diffrence between `%d` and `%i` format specifiers
- %d specifies signed decimal integer while %i specifies integer.
- %d and %i behavior is same in printf but different in scanf
- %d assume base 10 while %i auto detects the base

## rand() and srand()

- defined in header file `<cstdlib>`. rand() is used to generate a series of random numbers. The random number is generated by using an algorithm that gives a series of non-related numbers whenever this function is called. 
- If random numbers are generated with rand() without first calling srand(), your program will create the same sequence of numbers each time it runs.